# Summary
This is an implementation of 3d Topology Optimization using cubic tessalation. 
The algorithm uses the MMA nonlinear programming optimizer to manipulate compliance, max stress, and volume as either the minimization objective or constraints.

# Example Outputs

# Motivation
The goal of the project was given by our engineering team's client, Dr. Guilleminot. 
The current process for designing bone scaffolds requires an enormous amount of time and techincal knowledge, making the process of creating custom scaffolds prohobitive.
By creating an autonomous algorithm, we can create new designs in a faster, cheaper, and stronger manner.

# Parameters
There are several key variables that you want to manipulate when designing a bone scaffold.
## Volume
In order to promote long-term growth, bone scaffolds must be ~88% porous to allow for the regrowth of bone tissue. 
This is a major challenge as determining which parts of the bone can be safely removed is a None trivial task. 
This engine supports both minimizing the total volume/density of the bone while maintaining a minimum stiffness constraint 
or maximizing stiffness while keep the volume below a certain threshold.
## Compliance
Minimizing compliance (or maximizing stiffness) is one of the most common objectives in topology optimization.
Compliance is essentially the spring force generated by deformation. By optimizing this we can create a bone that holds is shapes under heavy loads.
## Stress
Stress is the most difficult parameter to optimize. 
Since the stress is a vector calculated locally, it faces multiple problems for optimization.
First we convert stress into the von mises form to estimate a 'magnitude' of stress. 
Then we can estimate the maximum using the aggregation method (∑s^n)^(1/n) for some large n.
Keeping this max stress below the yield stress of the material is an important constraint in structure generation.

# Materials
## Solid Isotropic Material with Penalization (SIMP)
The first type of material supported in this project is variable density printing. 
This method assumes that the stiffness of the material does not depend on the direction of force and 
the youngs modulus can be approximated as density^p * max
## Gyroid
The second, and main, material supported by this engine is the gyroid. 
The gyroid is a triply periodic (repeating vert/horiz/depth) minimal surface (locally smallest area) given by the function cos(x)sin(y)+cos(y)sin(z)+cos(z)sin(x) > threshold.

Some beneficial characteristics of the gyroid are:
- easy to parameterize in periodic manner
- variable density
- strong strength/weight ratio
- printable without supports

# Display Options
## Matplot
## Animation
## Vedo stl

# Cached Starts

# Passive Elements & Region Constraints

# Implementation Details
## NLOPT & MMA
## Iterative Solver
## Gyroid Scaling Law
## Load Cases

# Acknowledgements
# Requirements



